Architectural Review 1 Reflection
Eric Elder Jacobsen
Flynn Michael Legg


The main takeaway from this review that that we need to consider the scope of our project. Seeing other groups’ projects shed some light on what a good scope is, and our project was trying to do too much. We need to break the project into tackleable sections and deal with the ones we can deal with, rather than banging our heads against the MIDI input situation. We also discovered that a lot of what we planned on doing can be considered stretch goals, such as the baseline and especially the real time track generation. Real time code of any sort is a challenge, and trying to incorporate that into our project from the top would distract from the real goal of the project: to generate a backing track that someone can play over.

Our plan moving forward is to put the input on hold and instead use a pregenerated MIDI file, so that we can get the key recognition and note parsing working. From there we can work on chord generation and possible Markov chaining without having to deal with the hurdles of input and live track generation. This will make our future meetings more productive, as we can focus on getting important code written instead of focussing on debugging side problems. We need to keep our sights on the real goal of the project.

Plainly put, we did not prepare for this review at all. We overlooked the assignment and so failed to complete it. While we did briefly discuss our project at the end of the review period to receive some useful feedback, we had no planning materials, no visuals for the audience, and no survey to log people’s thoughts and ideas. In the next architectural review we will prepare appropriately beforehand and in general will be more diligent with upcoming projects. Additionally, we learned a great deal about how our next presentation should look from what did and didn’t work in other groups’ presentations. What stood out most was the relative benefits of different types of questions. Some groups asked questions about the design of their project, and while they received very specific feedback, it felt as though they were asking us for help completing their project rather than how to move it forward. Other groups asked questions that would be helpful for marketing their product, which, while useful in some circumstances, is less relevant to this project. The ideal question fell somewhere in the middle, ones that specifically targeted how to move the project forward without focusing on the mechanisms of the project.
